[View code on GitHub](sigmastate-interpreterhttps://github.com/ScorexFoundation/sigmastate-interpreter/.autodoc/docs/json/sc/src/main/scala/org)

The `ErgoScriptPredef.scala` file in the `.autodoc/docs/json/sc/src/main/scala/org/ergoplatform` folder provides utility methods for working with ErgoScript code on the Ergo platform. These methods simplify the process of creating and verifying scripts for transactions, making it easier for developers to interact with the Ergo blockchain.

The `compileWithCosting` method compiles ErgoScript code using the `SigmaCompiler`. It takes a `ScriptEnv`, a string of code, and a `NetworkPrefix` as input and returns a `Value[SType]`. The `IRContext` is an implicit parameter used by the `SigmaCompiler` to compile the code. This method can be used to compile ErgoScript code for various purposes, such as creating custom spending conditions for boxes.

Example usage:

```scala
val scriptEnv: ScriptEnv = ...
val code: String = "..."
val networkPrefix: NetworkPrefix = NetworkPrefix.MainnetPrefix

val compiledCode: Value[SType] = ErgoScriptPredef.compileWithCosting(scriptEnv, code, networkPrefix)
```

The `tokenThresholdScript` method generates a script that checks if a given box can be spent by a transaction containing a specific token amount. It takes a `tokenId`, a `thresholdAmount`, and a `NetworkPrefix` as input and returns a `SigmaPropValue`. The script is generated by compiling the provided code using the `compileWithCosting` method. The code for the script is a combination of three different versions, each of which uses different methods to calculate the sum of the token amounts.

Example usage:

```scala
val tokenId: Array[Byte] = Array(1, 2, 3)
val thresholdAmount: Long = 1000
val networkPrefix: NetworkPrefix = NetworkPrefix.MainnetPrefix

val script: SigmaPropValue = ErgoScriptPredef.tokenThresholdScript(tokenId, thresholdAmount, networkPrefix)
```

This code generates a script that can be used to verify if a given box can be spent by a transaction containing at least 1000 of the token with ID 010203. The resulting script is stored in the `script` variable as a `SigmaPropValue`.

The `.autodoc/docs/json/sc/src/main/scala/org/ergoplatform/dsl` folder contains code for defining and interacting with smart contracts on the Ergo blockchain platform. It provides traits, objects, and methods for specifying, proving, verifying, and interacting with input and output boxes in transactions. Developers can use the provided code to create, prove, verify, and interact with Ergo contracts and transactions, as well as transfer assets and interact with the Ergo blockchain.
